# Lecture 2: 2015-09-16

## Announcements
* Introduce TA.
* No Midterm, the scores are distributed into HW and projects.

## Control Flow Analysis

* Basic Block.
* Execution $$\rightarrow$$ Dynamic control flow
    * branch prediction
* static control flow (Compiler)
    * not executing the program
* Control flow analysis
    * Determining properties of the program branch structure

Organize structures, make smart decisions.

## Basic Block (BB)

* Defn: a sequence of consecutive operations in which flow of control enters at the beginning and leaves at the end without halt or possibility of branching except at the end.
* If one operation is executed in a BB, they all are.

### Finding BB's

* __Create__ a BB whenever you see a branch
* __Split__ if a target entered into the middle of a block

#### Q: dynamic branch?

* Statically determined?
* Programs with self-modifying code. [PAPER?]

## Control Flow Graph (CFG)

* taken (jump) / fallthrough (not jump)
* In the assembly code it looks not the same order in the "if" statement.

### Weighted CFG

* branch only when you do the "unlikely" thing.
* we want the fallthrough path to be the hottest path: not eliminating smaller the number of jumps, branching less dynamically (I-cache issue)

### Dominated DOM

* a node $$x$$ dominates $$y$$, if every path from the Entry block to $$y$$ contains $$x$$.
    * each BB dominates itself
    * If $$x$$ dominates $$y$$ and $$y$$ dominates $$z$$ then $$x$$ dominates $$z$$.
    * If $$x$$ dominates $$z$$ and $$y$$ dominates $$z$$ then either $$x$$ dominates $$y$$ or $$y$$ dominates $$x$$.
    
> I think the education is a little bit behind, but now we need only to keep the concepts in the head, and do the Google if you want to find the exactly algorithm.

### Donimator Tree